madness yen there are profound
differences in the attitude towards work
and personal responsibilities that
differentiate China from Canada I
display the fact that China has one of
the most despised legal systems in the
world one of em you know that the court
system in China basically nobody gets a
fair trial
it's also fair to say that China has
undertaken a series of social policies
on drug addiction and drug use that are
incredibly effective that get really
impressive results even in the small
towns that are right on the border
between Myanmar and UNAM even adjacent
to the Golden Triangle even an area that
has local heroin production or heroin
productions right there next door and
those if those policies are way more
effective than any drug policy ever
undertaken in the history of Colombia or
any other drug policy undertaken in the
history of Canada and we should have the
humility to learn from that to learn
from that experience even if China is
wrong about everything else guys even a
broken wrist watch is Right twice a day
it's not possible for China to be wrong
about everything just because there are
communist dictatorship the drug
enforcement policy in China has a real
price
it'll gonna have a price in dollars and
cents it's gonna have a price in you
know employing police officers and many
other things and it's gonna have a price
in human blood we have to ask ourselves
for the future of Vancouver for the
future of Victoria for the future of
these places that already have such
enormous numbers of drug addicts
stamping around on the streets what are
we willing to do what price are we
willing to pay and are we willing to
learn from the full range of examples
and case studies around the world
whether that be the streets of Amsterdam
or the streets of Yunnan China about us
yen hey guys some of you watched my
video that I uploaded yesterday we'll
have guessed that I am in fact filming
these videos sitting on the floor we
just moved into our new apartment
in Victoria British Columbia Canada our
desks arrived today
so our tables for this apartment today
um our bed arrived just a couple of days
ago but piece by piece something's being
ordered in the Internet something's
being bought in person in real life
we're putting together the bare
necessities but of course the first
priority goes to the kitchen kitchen and
baking equipment and what have you on
which indeed I've spent the considerable
sum of money all right with that having
been said this video is a response to a
comment from mod vegan on my patreon and
I sure think I'm gonna make two videos
today responding to two different
comments from odd vegan so I think she
gets a lot of value of her her one
dollar donation to my patreon and I get
a lot of value out of her one dollar
donation to because it inspires a lot of
a lot of my my content was responding to
her yeah she enjoyed most of the video
that we uploaded yesterday that
discussed quite a number of different
topics but she did not enjoy so much our
endorsement in passing of Chinese
anti-drug policy so we mentioned very
briefly my girlfriend's off-camera here
she can she can she have any time she
wants to are you gonna put your head in
baby anyway we were living on the border
between China and Myanmar which is an
area formerly known as the golden
triangle the golden triangle is a bit of
a misnomer I mean I guess we sorry know
if you'll inaccurate we weren't right on
the golden triangle it's a little bit
further south but that is an area where
the Burmese side of the border there has
been long and intermittent warfare from
a rebel group called the ki a the catch
in Independence Army and a few other
rebel groups - like the cocaine rebel
group that I made a YouTube video about
there their political situation it's an
area where the trade in illicit guns
illicit lumber and illicit drugs is
well-known and of long-standing and as
you can imagine a long-term situation of
civil wars is going to be a part of that
but where we were in that part of China
the government has a very very tough
very heavily enforced anti-drug policy
and in a very tough very clear public
education campaign about what the
government's position on drugs is and
what they expect to the public in terms
of compliance
we say in terms of sobriety that's
really what this this comes down to and
you know I should say beyond that
historically the use of heroin there the
use of opium really it is a traditional
part of their their culture and when
European empires first got involved in
the politics of the region they used
opium as their currency for those of you
don't know heroin is a refined form of
opium so it comes from the same plant
it's the same poppy the same flower but
there is a difference in terms of the
processing between opium and heroin and
in the old days of both the British
Empire and the French Empire trying to
control that region southern Yunnan and
then the adjacent part of Myanmar and
northern Laos and northern Vietnam balls
there was a black rubber ball of opium
and chests full of opium that really was
the currency that made those empires
function and indeed it was the main
reason why they were trying to conquer
that area trying to influence that area
and why they were even trying to build
railroads through that area this is a
topic of done formal research on and
that I have one formal publication on
like something published on paper and in
a book reflecting those years of my
political engagement storica research
and yet today with all of these factors
I mean you know with all this historical
background political context you might
expect the streets of de Hong Mancha to
be full of drug addicts and they are not
on the contrary it's the streets of
Vancouver British Columbia Canada that
are full of drug addicts to our horror a
world away Vancouver BC it doesn't have
easy or direct access to heroin doesn't
have easier direct access to cocaine
either those drugs have to be illegally
shipped they're over a huge distance
whereas in the part of you name we were
living in you can walk across the border
to northern Myanmar and acquire all
those things or they could be shipped
the other way etc Maude vegan writes to
me on patreon expressing her alarm that
we would say anything positive about a
country like China
we're about 2,000 people a year are
executed and many of those executions
are for drug dealing offenses that
generally speaking drug dealing drug
trafficking in China is going to carry a
death penalty offense
now China is very far from the only
country in the world that has a death
penalty for for drug trafficking another
example which is culturally linked is
Singapore Singapore is a capitalist
country but they also have death penalty
for many different drug offences
China's death penalty is mostly infamous
in general the Chinese justice system
the is infamous mostly for persecuting
political dissidents and that sort of
thing persecuting people to criticize
the government that's the main thing we
hear debated in the Western press is
when you know some lawyer who
represented somebody in a human rights
case is being persecuted when someone
who dared to publish articles
criticizing the government is being
tortured or interred or persecuted and I
have made videos on this channel about
that in the past the mean video I did
about it I should do more on Chinese
politics coming up on this channel as I
know of access to a library in Canada
and I'm living in Canada I'm not living
in China anymore a lot of things with my
own political position have changed a
video on document number 9 of the new
math line movement and that talks about
political persecution and indeed the use
of torture and unfair imprisonment and
torture of people in China imprisonment
interrogation torture etc in China
however you do not hear a lot of
complaints in the Western press or
otherwise about the conviction and
execution of drug addicts and drug
dealers now it may simply be that I am
more conservative than one freaking I
may simply be that I am more judgmental
or what-have-you or that I have a
different perspective on you know drug
law enforcement and and what have you I
know that a lot of her experience a lot
of her research is by contrast in South
America in Latin America so places like
Colombia Venezuela Brazil racine Bolivia
also places that have their own violent
history of drug dealing drug addiction
and rebel armies
low level revolution insurrection
rebellion etc where the link between
drugs and guns is very real with
enormous political consequences and
you'll be interesting maybe we should
have mod vegan come on skype and discuss
this with me maybe she really does have
very good reasons for why she is
terrified of a government imitating the
the policies that China has in being so
harshly repressive towards drug
addiction illicit drug use
however I've got to tell you when I
contrast the reality on the street
between Vancouver British Columbia
Canada and the Hong mancha which is in
Yunnan Province oh yes I choose the
Chinese policy every time and I do so
with an awareness that there's a body
count attached to it there absolutely is
here in Victoria I knew one guy he's
also vegan who worked in rehabilitating
drug addicts so I I won't describe
exactly what his job was but he worked
with hundreds and hundreds of different
you know long-term drug addicts in
helping them get housing helping them go
to job interviews I think helping them
go to recovery and treatment centers but
also more kind of long-term he was more
in the long term thing not the short
term not not the immediate task of
getting them getting them off drugs just
for the first couple of weeks quitting
but then trying to get them into a
lifestyle long term that's sustainable
for them and when I asked him and all do
seriousness what percentage of his
clients are success stories
what percentage successfully recover and
what percentage fail his answer was a
hundred percent failure which shocked me
and at first I thought maybe he was
joking his tone was very sad and saying
that he didn't seem like he was joking
so asked him further we know he was not
joking his experience after many years
of working in this field was of a zero
percent recovery rate that none of his
clients I don't know how many hundreds
or how many thousands he has worked with
by now over many years working the field
that none of them were covered none of
them ever gone
back to what could be considered a
normal life of even working a
minimum-wage job and paying their own
rent that they remained variously
permanently disabled permanently
drug-addicted permanently in a perpetual
cycle of relapsing onto drug use and so
on that was his professional experience
and it's it's very sad and it's bleak
Dillon town Vancouver Canada Vancouver
British Columbia Canada we saw two
different men just walking the streets
on the same night on the same night we
saw two different men with the needle in
their arm visibly as we walked past them
so they were on major streets we're in a
back alley openly for anyone to see
under the street lamps for shop owners
to see for parents walking home with
their children we saw two different men
with the needle in their arm during the
moment of injecting heroin into their
veins that openly I mean there are
security cameras around and so on and of
course we saw many many more drug
addicts staggering around once they had
already shot up heroin once they had
already gotten high but on the same
night you saw a two different man with
the the fled the skin of their arm out
and the needle in their arm at that
moment and this does indeed reflect as
my girlfriend said somewhat vaguely
briefly in the earlier video an attitude
of Canadian law enforcement that I
cannot in good conscience call tolerance
I think it has to be called indifference
that there is an indifference to these
people destroying their lives and
frankly probably destroying the lives of
others having a very negative impact on
a lot of people's lives around them a
small number of drug addicts in downtown
Victoria how sir pardon me downtown
Vancouver we're talking about this would
also be true of Denton Victoria but in
downtown Vancouver how many hundred drug
addicts of this kind do you think you're
talking about are you talking about five
thousand people are you talking about
five hundred people you know real social
science work can come up with an
accurate estimate these things are not
impossible to know but a small number of
people are having a tremendously
negative impact on the lives of millions
of people around them in the city as a
whole
and I think that is something
to be taken seriously so mod vegan
raises raises the warning that China
this is her statistic I haven't checked
it but she claims that China currently
executes about 2,000 people a year now
obviously that will not all be for drug
offenses I don't know we could look up
how many of those people are executed
for drug offenses but I pointed out in
riposte China's population is so
enormous that if we look at this
proportional in proportion to the
Canadian population we might be talking
about Canada executing 50 people a year
now again how many executions will we be
talking about being for drug addiction
can Canada do a better job than China
well would it be reckless recklessly
optimistic to say yes there are many
fields of human endeavor where the
Chinese now do better than Canada face
up to it what is Canada the best in the
world in right now maple syrup maple
syrup and not much else if Canada took
seriously its role in trying to
eliminate drug addiction at least this
type of extreme hard drug use and drug
addiction how well could we do could we
do half as well as China could we do
twice as well as China I think that
really is debatable I'm not some kind of
Canadian nationalist whose blinded with
optimism or perhaps even optimism rooted
in racism that somehow if Canada
undertook similar policies we'd have
better outcomes with a lower cost in
blood a lower cost in human lives maybe
we'd kill twice as many people
proportionate to our population and we'd
have half as much of a positive effect I
don't know I'm quite open to the
possibility that Canada will never do as
good a job in this area of human
endeavor as China is already doing I
think Canada is never gonna build a
railroad half as good as the railroad
that connects China to Tibet right now
which is one of the best railroads in
the world if not the best rail the world
I think Canada is never going to
manufacture iPhones
equipment the way China does there are
many reasons for that there are many
different things China is better at than
Canada I'll just give you one other
random one that isn't based on them
having low salaries when you go to China
and talk to a university professor in
any specialized field in my experience
specialized field like Buddhism
specialized field like history politics
languages indigenous ethnic minority
politics anthropology I've dealt with
professors in many different fields when
you talk to a specialized professor
within China they are connected to and
know useful things about every other
professor in China and to some extent
every professor in the world working
that field working in that field when
you talk to a university professor in
Canada by contrast it's a useless
dead-end they have none of those
connections then under that Guana see
Guan see is the is the term and in
Chinese they don't have that kind of
useful cooperative attitude this is one
example but if you have a lot of
experience working in Chinese society at
any level whether it's on the factory
room floor or in academia there are
profound differences in the attitude
towards work and personal responsibility
that differentiate China from Canada
China anyway there are many many ways in
which China actually does have
advantages over Canada culturally
educationally etc but despite the fact
that China has one of the most despised
legal systems in the world one of em you
know that the court system in China
basically nobody gets a fair trial I was
just saying to my girlfriend offhand as
equip in the United States of America
some people get a fair trial some in
general multimillionaires get a fair
trial in America the American justice
system works very well for rich people
and it works very poorly for poor people
that's a general rule of thumb I say
it's America but some people get a fair
trial in America some in China it is
fair to say nobody gets a fair trial
however it is also fair to say that
China has undertaken a series of social
policies on drug addiction and drug use
that are incredibly effective that get
really impressive results even in the
small towns that are right on the border
between Myanmar and Yunnan even adjacent
to the Golden Triangle even an area that
has local heroin production or heroin
productions right there next door and
those if those policies are way more
effective than any drug policy ever
undertaken in the history of Colombia or
any other drug policy undertaken in the
history of Canada and we should have the
humility to learn from that to learn
from that experience even if China is
wrong about everything else guys even a
broken wrist watch is Right twice a day
it's not possible for China to be wrong
about everything just because there are
communist dictatorship it's not possible
for Iran to be wrong about everything
just because there are crazy Muslim
dictatorship I mean I'm sorry semi
dictatorship they have their own degree
of democracy and in Iran they do have
some democracy and some role for
elections admittedly but you know the
Iranian government's wrong about a lot
of things but they can't possibly be
wrong about everything and this is a
situation and it's maybe not the only
one where we have to have the humility
to set aside our biases and whether
you're looking at this as a political
scientist or as a layperson as a
concerned layperson say yes you know the
drug enforcement policy in China has a
real price
it'll gonna have a price in dollars and
cents it's gonna have a price in you
know employing police officers and many
other things and it's gonna have a price
in human blood we have to ask ourselves
for the future of Vancouver for the
future of Victoria for the future of
these places that already have such
enormous numbers of drug addicts
stamping around on the streets what are
we willing to do what price are we
willing to pay and are we willing to
learn from the full range of examples
and case studies around the world
whether that be the streets of Amsterdam
or the streets of you nan Jie
[Music]
ablution